Soccer was my reason for living.
I was dreamed of becoming a professional soccer player.
I thought that happiness comes from pain.
A good career.
Money.
When I was six, my parents signed me up for soccer.
I really loved playing soccer.
It's been all my time at the stadium, even laid into the night.
When I was 12, I learned about Jehovah from my mom.
At that time, she started studying the Bible.
And after about a year, I began to preach from door to door.
When I was 17 years old, I finished school
and I received an invitation from the Dynamo Soccer Club in Kiev.
Oh, that was unforgettable.
Yes, my emotions were running high because since childhood,
I always dreamed of playing for Dynamo.
From that moment on, all my energy and all my time were devoted to my career.
Every day, we either trained or there was a game.
There was no time left for spiritual things.
Of course, being around people like that, I became just like them.
I led in a moral lifestyle because huge amounts of money
opened up many opportunities.
Going to nightclubs.
The nightlife.
It was so immoral.
Everyone wants to be your friend, to meet you.
And of course, this was done thing.
I also invested huge sums of money in real estate.
I wanted to create a foundation for the future
and wealth for myself, my family and my relatives,
so that no one would be in need.
Yes, I was sure that this really was happiness.
This continued for nine years.
The turning point was a conversation with management
when an issue came up.
And they hurled insults at me.
At that moment, I felt worthless, like a disposable cup
that you use, then crush and throw away.
Besides, a new generation of soccer players was arriving.
Many young guys.
I stopped being included in the starting lineup.
Also, the financial crisis began.
And real estate prices fell drastically.
I panicked.
I didn't know what to do.
And I started to think about the meaning of life.
What really is the meaning of life?
If it's not a career, not money, and what is it?
And then I remembered everything that I learned about Jehovah
when I was a teenager.
I began to study the Bible again, along with my wife.
After a year, I started preaching again.
And in 2009, I was baptized as one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
And this brought me so much joy and satisfaction.
These feelings can't be compared to winning any medal or cup.
I realized that I couldn't slave for two masters.
But I still had to play two more years for dynamo Kiev.
Although it was a difficult time, I took advantage of this opportunity.
And I'm thankful to Jehovah that a good witness was given about his name.
There were some soccer players who showed interest in the truth.
In 2011, when my contract ended, I finished my professional career.
First Timothy chapter 6 encourages us to place our hope,
not on uncertain riches, but on God, and to be rich and fine works.
People ask me, do you regret it?
Maybe you'd like to come back?
Do you miss soccer?
And I honestly and sincerely say no.
I don't miss it, and I don't want to go back.
Because my relationship with Jehovah can't be compared to anything.
Everything that this world offers is all short-lived.
And it's only an illusion.
People see only one side of the picture, the fame, the money.
The other side is the injures, disappointments.
It's very hard psychologically and emotionally.
You have no freedom.
That's why it's better to give the very best to the one who appreciates it.
What you do for Jehovah will always bring you happiness, joy, and satisfaction.